In this video I'll explain the role of the center the platform services controller and how they are
used to manage our ESX I host.
So here we see a little diagram.
And basically the point of this diagram is to illustrate that the center is used to manage our entire
vse fair environment.
So in the big green box here that represented the center and then within it I might have multiple virtual
data centers that include ESX hosts virtual machines data stores virtual switches and all of these different
components that make up my virtual data center but the center is the top level of administration or
I can use it to manage many ESX I host at once and resetter also hosts my Vee's for web client as well.
So technically we could actually manage individual ESX I hosts using the Vee's for our client.
But as the environment continues to grow this starts to become really impractical.
So the center gives us that central management system so that we can control everything at once from
one unified web client and not only does V Center give us our central management capability but it also
makes certain features possible.
You can't do commotions storage Wii motion high availability fault tolerance depress storage device
and many other features require V Center to be available so visitors not just a management platform
it unlocks a lot of capabilities that are not possible.
If we choose to not deploy center
so we have a few different options of how we can actually create our V Center server.
There's the center server appliance or we can deploy the center on a Windows machine and the first option
is to set up a Windows virtual machine and install the Center on it so we can install the center on
top of any of the supported versions of Windows.
This does require a Windows license of course.
And because it's running on a virtual machine we can protect the center with either high availability
or fault tolerance.
So we can give ourselves the ability to recover from a failure of an ESX I host.
Now we could also potentially deploy the center on a physical server running Windows.
And this gives us complete segmentation of management.
We've got our management server running on a separate physical device and this might be required for
compliance purposes but it's usually not recommended because we can't protect the physical server with
high availability or fault tolerance.
So it doesn't have the same level of redundancy that a virtual machine would give us.
Now an option that's becoming more and more popular is to configure a V Center server appliance and
the center server appliance is a pre-built preconfigured virtual appliance that's designed to run V
Center.
Basically you download it you important to run on an ESX I host and you immediately have a complete
the center configuration.
That's very easy to install very easy to upgrade and it's a virtual machine that can be protected with
high availability or fault tolerance.
And we don't require a Windows license so traditionally the windows V Center has been more popular because
it had a higher set of features it was compatible with additional databases it could support more virtual
machines more ESX I host but now we have feature parity between the two.